graph references in Cypher 25 (#1295)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/values-and-types/graph-references.adoc

= Graph references
:description: Information about Cypher's graph reference values.

Graph references are values used to specify which graph is targeted in a query.

> They are principally used with the xref:clauses/use.adoc[`USE`] clause, xref:functions/graph.adoc[graph functions], such as `graph.byName()` and when referring to databases and aliases in administration commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are principally used with the xref:clauses/use.adoc[`USE`] clause, xref:functions/graph.adoc[graph functions], such as `graph.byName()`, and when referring to databases and aliases in link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/[administration commands].
```

> The output of the name column in `SHOW DATABASES` and `SHOW ALIASES FOR DATABASE` can be used as an identifier when referring to a specific graph references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `name` column output from link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/standard-databases/listing-databases/#_show_databases_output[`SHOW DATABASES`] and link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/operations-manual/current/database-administration/aliases/manage-aliases-composite-databases/#manage-aliases-composite-databases-list[`SHOW ALIASES FOR DATABASE`] can be used as identifiers for graph references.
```

> When referring to a constituent in a composite database, the identifier is defined as <composite-name>.<alias-name>, where the dot functions as a separator between the composite database name and the alias name. While we do not recommend creating databases or aliases containing dots, it is possible to refer to the alias `some.alias` in the composite `some.composite` as `some.composite.some.alias`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When referring to a constituent in a composite database, the identifier is defined as `<composite-name>.<alias-name>`, where the dot functions as a separator between the composite database name and the alias name.
Although creating databases or aliases containing dots is not recommended, it is possible to refer to the alias `some.alias` in the composite `some.composite` as `some.composite.some.alias`.
```

[[rules]]
== Rules

The following rules apply for graph references when using identifiers (static graph references, administration commands) or the `graph.byName` functions:

* Unquoted dots are separators between a composite database and its constituent. 
For example, `composite.db1` represents the constituent `composite.db1` in the composite database `composite`.

> To refer to a database with a dot (`.`) in its name, quote the graph reference instead: `++`composite.db1`++`.

Reviewer 2: while we don't care about the quoting part, it might be good to somewhere at least mention how we handle dots and composite database and their aliases

> * Graph references passed as graph functions such as `USE graph.byName(<graph-reference>)` apply the escaping rules of xref:values-and-types/boolean-numeric-string.adoc#string-literal-escape-sequences[string literals]. Note that quotes are considered as part of the name, e.g. `USE graph.byName('`db-with-dash`') would try to resolve the graph reference ``db-with-dash``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Graph references passed as graph functions such as `USE graph.byName(<graph-reference>)` apply the escaping rules of xref:values-and-types/boolean-numeric-string.adoc#string-literal-escape-sequences[string literals]. Note that quotes are considered as part of the name, e.g. `USE graph.byName('`db-with-dash`')` would try to resolve the graph reference ``db-with-dash``.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure that single ` will help with all the formatting weirdness, but it should help some of it I'd believe
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6f7ae8db-a798-4f54-8f42-d391ec77f037)

[[rules]]
== Rules

> The following rules apply for graph references when using identifiers (static graph references, administration commands) or the `graph.byName` functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following rules apply for graph references when using identifiers (static graph references, administration commands) or the `graph.byName` function.
```

> `USE graph.byName(<graph-reference>)` is typically equivalent to `USE <graph-reference>`. There may be differences if the name contains special characters:

Reviewer: New sentences on new lines
 
```suggestion
`USE graph.byName(<graph-reference>)` is typically equivalent to `USE <graph-reference>`.
There may be differences if the name contains special characters:
```

> * Graph references passed as identifiers such as `USE <graph-reference>` apply the escaping rules of xref::syntax/naming.adoc#symbolic-names-escaping-rules[symbolic names]. Graph names can either be unquoted or need to be quoted in its entirety, e.g. `USE neo4j` or `USE `db-with-dash``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Graph references passed as identifiers such as `USE <graph-reference>` apply the escaping rules of xref::syntax/naming.adoc#symbolic-names-escaping-rules[symbolic names]. Graph names can either be unquoted (e.g. ,`USE neo4j`) or need to be quoted in its entirety (e.g., `USE `db-with-dash``).
```
